Send this video.
Let's go over how you achieve abstraction through encapsulation.
Well he have achieved abstraction through encapsulation in our code but will be governed over is how
we have done that.
And also a bit of more explanation of what encapsulation is.
So here you can see five methods of selling which we're only making visible to the inheriting child
classes.
What we exposed to the world is the cell method.
Now here is the subtlety.
And here is how you achieve abstraction through encapsulation.
If you listen to it and you don't get it the first time around please rewind and listen to it multiple
times.
This is very very important.
So here it comes encapsulation is just the process of either hiding or showing members of a class.
Nothing more nothing less we just say hey this is what I want to hide and this is what I want to show.
All right that's it.
And we hide or show by using Access specifies now.
Abstraction is the reason why we perform encapsulation because encapsulation on its own is just a blind
process.
We can just say Hey hide this field.
Show this property.
Show the constructor.
Show the cell method you know hide methods only for the inheriting class.
So it's a blind process of hiding or showing things.
Why do we decide to hide and show.
That's the question why do we decide to hide certain things.
And why do we decide to show other things.
This is the question and the answer to this is abstraction.
We only show what is relevant to the end user and that is abstraction.
We only show what is relevant to the user which is why we hide certain things and show other things.
You see that the way we hide and show is done in a concrete way.
Using axis specifies but the reason why I said abstraction is a more of a generic term is because it
happens as a natural result of encapsulation because as you hide and show things you will achieve abstraction.
However if you just blindly hide and show things then you will achieve abstraction.
But that abstraction won't really mean much.
But if you know what you want to make relevant for the user then it's going to be a more of a conscious
abstraction.
But I could have just went and made all of the methods public or maybe only one of them public and the
rest of them private or not even that I could have made one protected one private just randomize all
the Axis specifies.
Am I also achieving abstraction.
Hundred percent.
Of course I am.
However there is no meaning behind that abstraction.
It's not useful abstraction but if I have a conscious idea Hey man I know that the cell method is what
the user needs and the rest of it is just details.
They don't need to know about this stuff.
So that's how I achieve more meaningful abstraction through encapsulation.
So once again we just give the end user what they need in order to achieve what they want the end user
in our case wanted to be able to sell an item.
So we expose the cell method.
They don't need to know how we sell the item.
OK.
And this is how applications are written in the real world.
We hide things that the end user doesn't care about and we show what the end user needs.
Once again to be able to achieve what they want and that is abstraction.